well you you list here in one of your
articles uh where you make reference to
these rating systems the bottom 10
countries for doing business in the
world Chad Haiti
Central African Republic Congo
Democratic Republic South Sudan Libya
Yemen Venezuela there's a lovely example
Eritrea and Somalia and so there are
three exceptions in the African
ecosystem
Mauritius Rwanda Kenya South Africa
Botswana and Zambia you pointed out in
your prospectus is it prospectus or the
prospectus article of uh right Institute
right that Mauritius is a rising star on
Rwanda is in some ways comparable to
Georgia so some of these countries have
started to get this right yes and so
what's the consequence of that and what
does right mean what they have
understood what these countries have
understood is that economic freedom is
at the center for Prosperity building
uh Rhonda for example Paul kagame the
president of Rwanda
is explicit about it he said he wants to
be the liqu he wants to be with
Singapore of Africa and Lee kuang Wu is
his model now the dirty Mouse are gonna
start shouting oh yeah see authoritarian
blah blah blah whatever me I want to
talk only about the um on the economic
side
if you take Lee kuang Wu and Singapore
as your example then it means that like
him you're gonna have to be serious
about economic freedom
and that's exactly what he did that's
what Singapore did when Singapore
figured that out they went on to put in
the right reforms to make their
environment the most some of the most
business friendly environments in the
world one of the most free markets
environment in the world and you saw the
magic of Singapore today Singapore is
richer than its ex-colonizer Great
Britain so when I hear people telling me
today oh Africa is poor because of
colonization I'm like please let's move
on from that
does it have maybe a tiny percentage in
where we are today maybe maybe and I
don't know but I know it's not the cause
because if it were many countless
countries have been colonized before and
by the way colonizing one another is is
Humanity's history it just happened that
maybe African Africa has been one of the
the last you know um colonized region in
the world so enough psyche it it is
there and it acts like nothing happened
before to others but uh flash news it's
the history of the world we've been
capturing each other back and forth all
of that so anyway but the truth is
um Singapore Rich Urban Great Britain
today and then Hong Kong happened and
then because Hong Kong happened China
even today happened because China is
like wait a minute what went on over
there and then China went on to do exact
same thing with its secs the special
economic zones some of the most free
market zones in the world and then look
at it happen in Commons China who when
it comes to economics decided that we're
going to do the free market we're going
to be capitalist because that's the only
way we tried everything else we killed
hundreds of millions of people and and
we have and we have nothing to show for
it but now that we're tired of being
disrespected members of society because
guess what that's the other thing too
you want to be respected in this world
you're going to have to be among the
prosperous ones for other reasons would
it be nice gee that we respect people
just because absolutely but that's
really not the world we live in so when
China got tired of being disrespected by
like maybe we got to build also some
Prosperity here because when we're going
to hear us and today China being one of
the you know being where it is at even
Hollywood Hollywood who tries to tell
the world how to think is being told by
China
what movies to make and how to tweak
stories and history in order to be
palatable for them you see the power
that comes with with being prosperous
the Consumer Price Index has reached yet
another 40-year high and the latest GDP
numbers confirmed that the United States
is in a recession now is not the time to
have all your money in the stock market
or tied to the US dollar protect your
savings from a highly turbulent economy
by diversifying at least some of your
Investment Portfolio into gold and
silver from Birch gold group text Jordan
to 989898 and Birch gold will send you a
free information kit on how to
transition an IRA or eligible 401K into
an IRA and precious metals Birch gold
will even help you hold gold in a tax
sheltered account for decades investors
have relied on gold and silver as a
hedge against inflation now you can too
with an A plus rating from the Better
Business Bureau countless five star
reviews and thousands of satisfied
customers secure your future with gold
from Birch gold now text Jordan to
989898 and get real help from Birch gold
today again text Jordan to 989898 to
claim your free no obligation
information kit on how to protect your
hard-earned savings with gold
what would you recommend concretely to
countries like Senegal to get the hell
out of the way let's say of the people
who would like you would try to would do
everything they could to try to make it
better I mean one of the things that
happened with India is India established
the Indian Institute of Technology which
is a deadly engineering school and a
huge number of its graduates went to
Silicon Valley as you well know and many
of the successful Indian graduates of
IAT started to dump money back into
India and build a capitalist
infrastructure there or help build a
capitalist infrastructure there so this
sort of thing can really take hold if
you were making recommendations to
governments who wanted to get on board
and stop being like Chad Heidi Central
African Republic Congo South Sudan Libya
Yemen and Venezuela Etc what what
concrete steps should they take from the
bottom up to get the hell out of the way
exactly so two things we've been doing
uh because I'm an I'm a practitioner as
that's my Enterprise so I practice what
I preach but I also preach I preach for
free markets and so when it comes to
that I'm I'm one of the hats that I wear
is as the um director for the African
Center for prosperity of the atlas
Network the largest organization in the
world of um free market think tanks
around the world and so what we do there
is we work on reforms around the world
to take down barriers of entry for local
entrepreneurs so that's one thing but as
we all know that's a great initiative to
take and we've been making some really
good advances in uh in in many countries
especially in Ghana we've been making a
lot of progress with our partners there
Imani but
um piecemeal but that is piecemeal
legislation it takes forever it is hard
as heck and by the time you meet again
here you made 20 losses over there and
it's a continuous problem but until we
get better we got to continue at it so
that's one thing we've been doing and so
that's a hat I wear working with free
market think tanks to try to make it
easier for local entrepreneurs to to to
join into the party additionally I'm
going bold I'm going radical for the
past few years we've been advocating
um an idea for Africa that found some of
its roots in um in Latin America and
again I'm related to the people who are
involved in this my husband been one of
the key figures in this movement a
movement called the charter cities Paul
Romer calls it like that he's a Nobel
Laureate in economics always calls it
call it the three cities I like to call
it the startup cities so the best way to
think about it Jordan and it goes back
to what you were talking about earlier
when you said when you use the word
operating software most of the poor
developing most of a low income Nations
so meaning back in the days the way we
used to call it is poor nations are they
have regulations for poverty they
basically regulated for poverty meaning
the laws the set of law poverty it only
calls poverty and so what some of these
folks have thought about looking at the
Dubai example
Dubai just recently entered the top 10
of uh International Financial Centers of
the world and what Dubai did at some
point is think about it and be like on
this bear you know
sand
plot of sand that's technically worth
nothing right now as is this 110 acres
of land
sand everywhere they're like well maybe
Sharia law is at the best for business
um we got to think about better set of
laws for business we're talking about
only about business not family law not
anything else but business and they
decided there's got to be something
better
and so they looked around and that's
actually when to take one of the terms
you used earlier they're starting to
realize hmm
common law is actually a better way for
business specifically British common law
so at that point and I'm oversimplifying
here because otherwise we can totally
geek out on it remember this is like one
of my latest things that I've been
involved in but latest it's been the
past 10 years and I'm going to share
with you a win
um so Dubai is like we have to adopt
British you know common law primarily
British common law we're going to hire
retired British common law judges to
come and educate the law here train our
own people and that along with many
other reforms to also become a top
Center uh when it comes to um and in the
free market when it comes to the
finances British common or that British
common law system so it's very very
interesting theologically and
metaphysically so it's predicated on the
idea that people have every individual
has all the rights that there are except
for those that are specifically
regulated and limited by legal necessity
and then generally that that realm of
necessity has emerged only as a cons
sequence of disputes between people so
you're free to do whatever you want
unless you have a dispute with someone
else then the dispute is adjudicated
according essentially to constitutional
and Theological principles and then a
precedent is established then the whole
body of law built up that body of
Precedence yes yeah and it's bottom up
top down it's totally in English common
law is a gift from God man it's
something else absolutely and that's the
key word there when you said bottom up
so common law is so much better for
bottom-up approaches and we all know
that markets work better in a bottom-up
approach and also when they have to
educate the law and resolve a dispute
they're going to be much more respectful
to the contract that was passed between
the two parties than say civil law would
be right and so anyway so from this
standpoint here you have Dubai who is
not wanting to put all of this together
and eventually they put a set of laws
together that would now be conducive to
being a top International Financial
Center in the world and voila in less
than a generation in less than 25 years
Dubai completely unrecognizable